W-14236981-VariablesDoc-ESB (#507)
mulesoft/docs-composer: en/mulesoft/modules/ROOT/pages/ms_composer_flows.adoc

. <<create-a-new-flow,Create a new flow>> or open an existing flow. +
. In the *<Flow Name>* page, click *Edit*. 
. Locate the position in your flow where you want to access the *Variable* step and click the plus button. 
. In the *Next Step* window, click *Variable*. +
The *Variable* step appears. 

[[create-a-variable-using-the-visual-editor]]

> === Create a Variable Using the Visual Editor 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Create a Variable by Using the Visual Editor 
```

=== Create a Variable by Using the Visual Editor 

To create one or more new variables using the *Visual Editor* window: 

. <<access-the-variable-step,Access the *Variable* step.>> 
. Select *Action* > *Create Variable*.
. From the *Variable* section, click *Add Variable*. 
. In the *Label* field, enter a unique name for the variable.
+
The name entered is unique only to this step. You can duplicate values in the *Label* field across different Variable steps. 
. In the *Data Type* dropdown, select the data type to use for the variable. The following xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#data-types[data types] are supported: `String`, `Number`, `Boolean`, `Date`, `DateTime` and `List`. If you select *List*, in the *List Item Type* field, select:
.. *String*, *Number*, or *Boolean* to return a list that contains primitive data types 
.. *Object* to return a list of objects, for example, the output of the *Get Records* action

+
Repeat the previous steps until you added all the required fields. 
. To add additional variables in the Visual Editor, click *Add Variable*. You can create multiple variables in each Variable step.
. Click *Apply*. 
+

> . Optionally, to modify the variables, click *Manage Variables* to open the Visual Editor or *Edit Schema* to open the JSON Schema.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> . In the *Visual Editor*, in the *Label* field, enter a unique name for the variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Label* field, enter a unique name for the variable.
```

+
The name entered is unique only to this step. You can duplicate values in the *Label* field across different Variable steps. 

> . In the *Data Type* dropdown, select the data type you want to use for the variable. The following xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#data-types[data types] are supported: `String`, `Number`, `Boolean`, `Date`, `DateTime` and `List`. If you select *List* in the Data Type field, in the *List Item Type* field, select:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Data Type* dropdown, select the data type you want to use for the variable. The following xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#data-types[data types] are supported: `String`, `Number`, `Boolean`, `Date`, `DateTime` and `List`. If you select *List* in the *Data Type* field, in the *List Item Type* field, select:
```

> .. *String*, *Number*, or *Boolean* to return a list containing primitive data types. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. *String*, *Number*, or *Boolean* to return a list that contains primitive data types. 
```

> .. *String*, *Number*, or *Boolean* to return a list containing primitive data types. 

Author: Fixed throughout

> .. *Object* to return a list of objects, for example, the output of the *Get Records* action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. *Object* to return a list of objects, for example, the output of the *Get Records* action
```

+

> The *Label* field appears. Repeat the previous steps until you have added all the required fields. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repeat the previous steps until you have added all required fields. 
```

Reviewer: I am not sure what "Repeat the previous steps until you have added all the required fields" means in this context. What are you repeating?

> The *Label* field appears. Repeat the previous steps until you have added all the required fields. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repeat the previous steps until you have added all the required fields. 
```

> . Optionally, to add additional variables in the Visual Editor, click *Add Variable*. You can create multiple variables in each Variable step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To add additional variables in the Visual Editor, click *Add Variable*. You can create multiple variables in each Variable step.
```

. Click *Apply*. 
+

> The *Create Variables* window displays one or more new variables added to the flow. 

Reviewer: I don't think you need these result statements. The user will see this in the GUi.

Author: Removed.

> The *Create Variables* window displays one or more new variables added to the flow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> . Optionally, to modify the variables, click *Manage Variables* to open the Visual Editor or *Edit Schema* to open the JSON Schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To modify the variables, click *Manage Variables* to open the Visual Editor or *Edit Schema* to open the JSON Schema.
```

> . Optionally, to modify the variables, click *Manage Variables* to open the Visual Editor or *Edit Schema* to open the JSON Schema.

Reviewer: I would remove this step. You have a section for modifying variables later on, so you don't need to mention it here.

Author: This is actually different. It just allows you to update them as they stand right now - the "Update" steps are different.

[[create-a-variable-using-the-json-schema]]

> === Create a Variable Using the JSON Schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Create a Variable by Using the JSON Schema
```

. In the *JSON Schema* window, enter the properties for the variable to create. 
+
Note that each variable is defined within a `Properties`  object with a `Variable Unique ID`.  The `Variable Unique ID` enables the variable to be tracked within your flow. The `Variable Unique ID` can contain only alphanumeric characters, hyphens, and underscores. When using the Visual Editor, this ID is automatically generated for you.

> Each variable must specify the `Title` and data type. To set the properties for the variable definition, complete the following: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each variable must specify the title and data type. To set the properties for the variable definition, complete the following: +
```

> .. `Variable Label (Title)`: The display label for the variable. (Required) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. `Variable Label (Title)`: Display label for the variable. (Required) 
```

> .. `Variable Label (Title)`: The display label for the variable. (Required) 

Reviewer: These are unordered sublists - not numbered sublists.

Author: I agree - I will add a comment in the doc to turn to tables at a later time.

> .. `Type`: The data type of the variable. The following xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#data-types[data types] are supported: `String`, `Number`, `Boolean` and `Array`. To define a `Date` or `DateTime` variable, the data type should be set to `String` and the `Format` property should be defined. (Required) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. `Type`: Data type of the variable. The following xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#data-types[data types] are supported: `String`, `Number`, `Boolean` and `Array`. 
+
To define a `Date` or `DateTime` variable, set the data type should to `String` and the define the `Format` property. (Required) 
```

> .. `Format`:  The qualifier for `String` properties that can specify additional data types not natively supported in JSON. For variables, this value must be set when defining `Date` or `DateTime` variables as `date` or `date-time` respectively. (Optional)

Reviewer: I will stop deleting the initial articles in the property descriptions. They are not needed and since we are trying to cut text, it is good to remove them.

Author: Fixed throughout

> .. `Format`:  The qualifier for `String` properties that can specify additional data types not natively supported in JSON. For variables, this value must be set when defining `Date` or `DateTime` variables as `date` or `date-time` respectively. (Optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. `Format`:  The qualifier for `String` properties that can specify additional data types not natively supported in JSON. For variables, set this value when defining `Date` or `DateTime` variables as `date` or `date-time` respectively. (Optional)
```

> .. `Items`: Specifies the item type for `List` variables. `Items` is an object and accepts the following child properties: (Required only when defining List variables) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. `Items`: Item type for `List` variables. `Items` is an object and accepts the following child properties: (Required only when defining List variables) 
```

====

. Optionally, to add variables in the JSON Schema, enter them in the window.
. Click *Apply*. 
+

> The *Create Variables* window displays one or more new variables added to the flow. 

Reviewer: Do you need this? I don't think it's necessary.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> . Optionally, to modify the variables, click *Manage Variables* to open the Visual Editor or *Edit Schema* to open the JSON Schema.

Author: I think this needs to stay capitalized. We can revisit this later.

=== Initialize a Variable 

> After creating a variable, you may select an initial value for it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating a variable, you can initialize it:
```

> . Create a new variable using either the <<create-a-variable-using-the-visual-editor,Visual Editor>> or the <<create-a-variable-using-the-json-schema,JSON Schema>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a new variable by using either the <<create-a-variable-using-the-visual-editor,Visual editor>> or <<create-a-variable-using-the-json-schema,JSON schema>>.
```

Author: I think this needs to stay capitalized to match the UI.

. Complete the initial value for each variable. If variable's data type is: 
+

> .. `String`, `Number`, `Boolean`, `Date`, or `DateTime`, the default value is defined under each variable. If the field is empty, the value is set to the default value for that data type. You can enter a value manually, select any existing data pill (including variables) from your flow, select a <<create-a-picklist-mapping,Picklist Mapping>> (for `String` variables) or you can select the xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#add-custom-expression-to-an-action[*Custom Expression Editor*] to create a custom expression. 

Reviewer: These are unordered sub-bullets.

Author: Done
